All right.
Welcome back.
So the challenge the spoons challenge how do you go with that.
Did you manage to get a result and did you see those under-water stones and possibly if you did get
a result then you might be still pondering what it means because it's not something that we're used
to.
So it just has all of that and more.
And let's have a look at what's going on on that factory.
Let's go through this.
The fact these activists recently spent $10 million.
Do we need this number.
No we don't need this number because it's an impressive number it's a big number but it doesn't really
affect our analysis in any way.
It shouldn't.
Sometimes consultants can be susceptible to pressure from executives.
You shouldn't be susceptible because your analysis should be independent of what.
How much money they spend and what outcomes they want.
You should check the data.
The data will tell you the truth.
And so equipment and processes in order to combat excessively hide defects.
So in my future which we're 23 percent at the time which are leading to high returns from clients you
have been asked to prou for Carnforth level 95 percent.
Great.
So you know Alpha is equal to 5 percent that the new equipment has improved the situation and that the
number of defective SMS has decreased to under 18 percent.
So this is the tricky part.
We've got two numbers here we've got it used to be 23 percent.
And what they want to have is less than 18 percent.
So in your null hypothesis what are you going to choose are you going to choose 23 percent as your null
hypothesis situation or are you going to choose 18 percent.
As you know hypothesis situation well in this case the correct answer is 18 percent because what they
want is for you to test if the number of defective spoons has decreased under 18 percent.
There's not much point in testing if it's under 23 percent because that's not going to answer that question.
That's not what they want.
They probably like you could test that and see if that's correct.
But they wanted stronger to have a stronger question.
They want to prove a stronger scenario.
They want to say that's not just under-23 and it's actually under 18 percent and it doesn't really matter
that this never was the case in real life that previously it was this you're still testing a hypothesis.
You're no hypothesis what it is now.
So you know this hypothesis could be.
Right now we assume it's 23 percent still 23 percent or greater and we want to check that it's actually
dropped below that or your hypothesis can be.
Right now we're assuming that it's 18 percent or greater and we want to see that it's actually below
that and that's exactly what we're going to be doing.
That's the number you need to use.
So this number shouldn't be used anywhere in your analysis.
You have been supplied with a random sample of 150 spoons and found that 23 spoons have defects.
Great.
So now we know our sample size we know the percentage and the proportion in the sample.
The only thing I wanted to comment here on the law centers is you have been supplied with a random sample.
If you are chicken salad and if you're working in consulting you probably already know this or if you're
looking for a job in consulting or anything if you ever are doing consulting it is very important to
be careful about these things.
When people say you have been supplied with a random sample the reason for that is why would executives
supply you or the company supply a random sample.
Unfortunately sometimes they can be biased toward supplying you and not exactly a random sample.
It might have less defects than in reality because they did spend 10 million dollars and they might
want search results from analysis.
Their jobs might be dependent on that so you have to be very careful that when you are supplied a random
sample Ideally you need to go and get that random sample of yourself as a consultant so be careful that
not saying that executives are all like that.
No not at all.
But as a consultant you kind of like have a due diligence process you should be proud of following.
And I don't think that really flies with that type of due diligence process.
Nevertheless let's assume that they supplied us a fair random sample so we can proceed with our challenge.
So I'm just going to copy the important information here in just the relevant stuff and let's start
all hypotheses.
So age 0 18 percent or more have defects meaning that the proportion is 18 percent or greater.
Alternative Hypothesis.
Less than 18 percent have defects meaning that P is less than 18 percent.
Okay that is pretty straightforward.
Now let's draw our sampling distribution.
Remember that this is all he had.
This is how we're drawing samples of 150 spoons out of the whole population of the spoons that we have.
And we want to see.
OK.
So how will they be distributed.
Well according to the central limit theorem these samples will always be distributed or the other had.
So basically the prob the proportion of defective spoons in the samples will always be redistributed
this way.
So you draw one sample it will be somewhere here John other sample the proportional be drawn up sample
proportional be here.
So it's always going be on all the distribution.
And when we know how the Calcott me the hat and sigma p hat and that's exactly what we're going to do.
So my hat is equal to mu which is equal to P..
And that's just the way this proportion testing works.
So we talked about that this in your formula that we were discussing in the section and that equals
to 0.18.
So we know what that is.
Next on is psig Michaels square root of P-Q another new formula and it equals to 0.38 four.
So hopefully you got these results then Sigma P hats is when divided by skewered and calculate dads
or points or 3:01.
So be had is there a point 1 5 3.
So we know that this is a point 18 he had is zero point one by three and that's just because 23 out
150 So that's a good start.
It's already less some way here hopefully.
And you know the further away the better because if it's really far away we can just we'll just look
up the P-value or the Zed's score in the Zad table and we'll just reject the null hypothesis.
We'll keep this one and we'll be good to go will be.
We've got the result that we wanted or the executives won.
Now we calculate the SAT score p hat 0 1 1 5 3 minus myu p hat the where is the mean of all of those
P hats in this sampling distribution divide by Sigma.
We had the sampling distributions.
All of those hats in the sampling distribution divide that calculate 0.
Mine is zero point eighty seven and this is probably where you went like oh I'll be really happy if
he actually did go all when you got this zero.
Mine is a point eighty seven when even before you calculated the zeds score you should have gone like
something is not as I usually have seen it before you know something is is different to that way and
only calculate because he had is actually not there.
It's already here and as I recall usually our P hats or or X hats they're sitting and the edges and
the tails and that's what allows us to reject them because it's so unlikely to pick a random sample
and end up in these tails.
But right now we had is sitting inside the first distribution and if the first of deviation.
And what does that mean for us.
Well we know that 68 percent of all of the P hats will inevitably fall inside the first division between
this box and this box 68 percent of them full in here.
So it's actually pretty likely that the random sample that we selected these 150 spoons and that therapy
had actually fell here.
It doesn't look promising doesn't look that we're going to be able to reject this null hypothesis.
Looks like the null hypothesis is pretty solid at sitting at zero point 18 that if this is the case
we totally could have picked this like there's no magic going on here.
Let's have a look.
So if that's how they score the scalp at all P-value let's not calculate is it up.
So that score minus zero point eighty.
So there's I said let's see where we're going to end up minus zero point eight and 7 7 7 7 7.
All right.
So was there a point 19:22 19:22 19 and 22 percent so 19 percent.
Nineteen point twenty two percent.
So 19 over 19 percent is the likelihood of picking this sample.
If we were picking a random sample and that is way bigger than 5 percent.
So there is no chance of us rejecting this null hypothesis.
And this is this is the part that should have been like a bear a bit a bit new because we have never
had a situation so far where we didn't reject the null hypothesis.
So things are not going as smooth this time.
So what does that mean.
What what does it all mean.
Well it means that first of all we're going to circle isn't green.
I'll explain what it means.
And we're going to cancel this one out.
And now I'll explain why the logic isn't just reverse from what we normally do.
We cannot say here that we reject the alternative hypothesis that we keep the hypoth.
We accept the null hypothesis.
We cannot say that all we can do here is we can only say that there is insufficient evidence to reject
the null hypothesis.
Interesting isn't it.
There is insufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis that is the correct statistical terminology
for this situation and I hate to leave you hanging but we're going to have to discuss that in the next
tutorial in the next section of the Course because I was thinking of discussing this in the homework.
But what if somebody doesn't do the homework and then they don't get to understand how to treat these
situations.
That would be a shame because I think it's a very important thing to know.
Just let's jump into the next tutorial.
I hope you were able to get this result in the homework and this is how the homework is solved this
is the final answer.
We cannot reject an all hypothesis and we'll find out exactly what this means in the next tutorial but
just a few comments for the executives or did you tell them Well how does a couple of things as you'll
see from the next tutorial.
You can just pick a larger sample or pick another sample so you'll get more evidence to try and reject
it.
But if you find that this keeps going on that there's just no way you can reject the null hypothesis
and with time you will after several iterations you'll figure out that this looks like it's pretty solid.
It's not less than 18 percent that it might be even 19 or 20 percent.
So what you would go back and do once again you'd either do more samples just to get more evidence or
larger samples as well because you know that will tighten up this end and tighten up this meaning that
this will become even less and you'll make make the distribution like that even more.
But but and then you might have more chances of rejecting happens.
But it can be the case that you just can't reject it because this alternative is just not true.
It's just the case.
It's just as we'll discuss.
It's much like you you just will never have enough evidence to reject it.
So in that case what would you tell the executives.
Always you have to tell the truth because that's what the data is saying and it's your job as a consultant.
The thing is that sometimes maybe they made the wrong decision.
Like what if it wasn't about the equipment that they're using.
What if it wasn't about you know the spoons were they had so much defects not because just because the
equipment that they were using maybe by changing their equipment and processes they did improve the
quality of the spoons but not as much as they wanted to.
Maybe there's something with other parts of the input.
For example the raw materials the raw materials that go into the spoons.
Have they looked at that and as a consultant you would go and probably you know suggest maybe if it's
part of the scope of your project suggest some other things that they could look into like the raw materials
that are being used for these spoons if the raw materials are defective then that inherently translates
into the spoons.
What else could it be.
Maybe they improve the processes but they didn't train up the staff.
Maybe that's another thing they could look at.
So maybe this proves them are manufactured well but then the storage while they're being stored maybe
there is something wrong with the way way sort of like too hot or too cold or is vibration or something
like that.
Maybe that's all there could be lots of things so that's just kind of like a little consulting intermission
about what you might say.
Some ideas that you might have about what's going on.
But other than that in this case we don't reject null hypothesis and we just say that there's not enough
evidence to reject the null hypothesis at that level of confidence.
You know we could reject it at a 80 percent level of confidence because this is nineteen point twenty
two.
Twenty two percent is less than 20 percent.
We could reject that an 80 percent level of confidence but at the same time we're not going to because
we've been asked to do it in a 95 percent confidence.
And what exactly all of this means and how to process it or how to think about intuitively that we will
discuss in the next tutorial.
And I look forward to seeing you there until next time happy analyzing.